# 2023 August 8

- [ ] read section 4.5 of (Colon-Hernandez, 2023)

---

I wrote an outline of what I need to do to write my thesis proposal, which is kept in `thesis-proposal/plan.md`.

Now, I need to find hella papers [1] on commonsense reasoning in conversational agents.
After reading those papers, I will identify a few major focus areas for commonsense reasoning; essentially, I need to find subsubfields.
For each focus area, I need to identify its goal(s); prior work which has been done, especially in the more recent past; current or ongoing work in the focus area; and future directions which may be possible, both in the near future (~10 years) and more distant future (~25 years).

I started my literature review by finding the papers in my Paperpile which focus on commonsense reasoning.
I tried my best to only select papers which talk about commonsense reasoning itself, not on downstream tasks or downstream usages of it.

I read Stanford Grad School of Education's requirements for a PhD thesis proposal:

- A detailed statement of the problem that is to be studied and the context within which it is to be seen. This should include a justification of the importance of the problem on both theoretical and educational grounds.
- A thorough review of the literature pertinent to the research problem. This review should provide proof that the relevant literature in the field has been thoroughly researched. Good research is cumulative; it builds on the thoughts, findings, and mistakes of others.
- A statement on the overall design of the proposed study, which includes:
	- its general explanatory interest
	- the overall theoretical framework within which this interest is to be pursued
	- the model or hypotheses to be tested or the research questions to be answered
	- a discussion of the conceptual and operational properties of the variables
	- an overview of strategies for collecting appropriate evidence (sampling, instrumentation, data collection, data reduction, data analysis)
	- a discussion of how the evidence is to be interpreted (This aspect of the proposal will be somewhat different in fields such as history and philosophy of education.)

This is for work in pedagogy, not computer science, but I expect that my own thesis proposal should follow these requirements as well.
The first two points are easy for me to understand; I've conducted plenty of literature reviews, and I know how to frame a research project in commonsense reasoning.
The third requirement will require more thought, and I expect it to be slightly underdeveloped when I submit my thesis proposal in December.
However, I can say that I will refine it over the course of my first year in grad school, which will 'soften' the blow.

I slightly changed my plan for my thesis proposal.
I need to identify the subfields of commonsense reasoning by myself because that's not something which I can just look up.
I set that as its own task.


[1] can you tell I interned in the Bay?