# 2023 August 8

- [ ] read section 4.5 of (Colon-Hernandez, 2023)
- [ ] read the example thesis proposal (Bamman)

---

## Working on my thesis proposal

I continued reading (Bamman).

Section 2 covers persona identification.
Section 2.1 details what previous work has been done in persona identification and was not difficult to read.
Section 2.2 explains that this thesis will use persona identification to improve NLP solutions, particularly named-entity recognition.
I noted that this thesis proposal does not explain _how_ the thesis will improve NLP solutions, just that it will.
From this, I can tell that my own thesis proposal can say that I will find better ways to do commonsense reasoning without identifying exactly how.
The remaining sections, 2.3 and 2.4, discuss evaluation metrics and the significance of this work; these are simple and do not take much effort.

The next section, section 3, addresses the task of clarifying personas.
Specifically, it focuses on identifying their qualities in three dimensions and on identifying what kind of person understands them in this way.

Based on what I have read so far, I understand that my thesis should
- identify the area on which I want to focus (commonsense reasoning in conversational agents), and
- lay out a rough outline of what I will do to further research in this field.
It is important to note that I do not need to identify exactly how I will do the later and that a rough outline is enough.
Considering this, I am mostly convinced that I am ready to write my thesis proposal.
