# 2023 August 7

- [x] read section 4.4 of (Colon-Hernandez, 2023)
- [x] read what a doctoral thesis proposal is and plan how to do it
- [x] read the example thesis proposal (White, 2023)

---

## Working on my thesis proposal

I decided to start working on my thesis proposal.
Although I have not decided on the specifics, I know that I want to spend my thesis advancing commonsense reasoning in conversational agents.
I can write a partial thesis proposal on this and include it in my grad school applications.
It will also save me time when I am in grad school, putting me ahead of the curve.

I read:
- [an MIT article on what a doctoral thesis proposal is](https://www.media.mit.edu/posts/phd-dissertation-proposal/), and
- [a Columbia article on the same](https://www.cs.columbia.edu/education/phd/requirements/proposal/).

The Columbia article also provides a LaTeX template for a proposal, which I intend to use with acknowledgement.
Brown also provides [a template](https://cs.brown.edu/degrees/doctoral/proposal/brownthesis.cls).
I will decide which template to use later; I need to focus on the content first.

From the MIT article:

> The Thesis Proposal should present a plausible argument for a specific approach to a well-defined problem, with the intention of making an original and significant contribution to knowledge in the field.

Specifically, it says to include the following sections:

1. Abstract,
2. Goals or problem statement,
3. Research question(s),
4. Background,
5. Research plan,
6. Expected results and contributions,
7. Timeline, and
8. Resources required.

The Columbia article recommends the same, adding that I should include at least one initial result which is publishable in a conference.
I am not sure if I will be able to include that, but it would be good if I can.

Among the sections needed, I will be best able to write the background, goals or problem statement, and research question(s) section. 
The research plan and the expect results and contributions will be harder to write because of how early I am in the process, but I can try to sketch a rough outline.
The timeline and resources required section are very simple, and I can make a rough outline of them.

As I read publications on conversational agents and commonsense reasoning in them, I should ask myself how to use the information in them to write my proposal. 
In particular, the background, goals or problem statement, and research question(s) sections will be informed by my readings.

[An article from Rochester](https://www.cs.rochester.edu/graduate/phd-proposal.html) includes the following questions to be considered while I conduct background work:

- What (if anything) has been done already?
- What has not been done?
- What are the major gaps in previous work?
- What are recognized “next steps”?

After answering those background questions, I should answer the following questions to form the basis of my research plan and goals:

- How the research will attack the problem,
- What it will not attack,
- How it will fit in with previous work, and
- What the essential contribution of the work will be.

Once I have that, I will focus on a timeline of and organisation of my research, answering:

- The specific research directions you will pursue in the immediate future
- The general research directions you will pursue in the more distant future
- The theme that will unify your research into a coherent PhD dissertation

I read a computer vision thesis proposal (Coombe, Greg. n.d. “Dissertation Proposal.” https://www.cs.unc.edu/~cssa/guides/proposals/coombe.pdf) as an example.
This particular proposal, published in 2005, seemed simple.
I will try to find a more recent proposal in my own field, conversational agents.

I added the NLP thesis proposal (White, Lyndon. n.d. “PhD Research Proposal.” Accessed August 7, 2023. https://www.oxinabox.net/publications/WhiteProposalSentenceVectors.pdf), which is more recent and closer in content to my proposal.
Also, because it is in NLP, I can understand its content, whereas the previous CV paper is all Greek to me.

The next step in this direction is to read that NLP thesis proposal.
After reading it, I found that it was not an intimidating document, and I think that I am ready to work on my own thesis proposal.
I will certainly need to conduct more background reading, but that is very doable at this juncture.
The next proposal to read is the one by Bamman at CMU.


## Reading section 4.4 of (Colon-Hernandez, 2023)

Subsection 4.4.1 introduces the idea of joint commonsense inference, which is when we make inferences using multiple knowledge bases.
This subsection is rather simple.

Subsection 4.4.2 details a five-step process for conducting joint commonsense inference.
Four of the five steps are very simple, with step two being the only non-trivial step.
I have some difficulty understanding that step, but subsection 4.4.4 will explain it in greater detail.

The next subsection, 4.4.3, details how specificity can be changed in an assumption (e.g. 'X causes Y' can become 'General\_X causes General\_Y').
Again, it was pretty simple.

Subsection 4.4.4 explains how assertions are aligned with exemplary stories and the line from each story which best represents the assertions.
The process to do so is fairly simple:

1. assertions and stories are sent into a shared latent space,
2. for each assertion, we pair it with the closest story,
3. for each (assertion, story) pair:
  1. send each sentence from the story into the shared latent space,
  2. find the sentence in the story which is closest to the assertion to form an (assertion, story, sentence) triple.

This clears up the confusion which I had.

Subsections 4.4.5 and 4.4.6 detail the experimental setup and results.
I skimmed them.
They showed that the results are mixed.
