# 2023 September 21

- [ ] Write program to create new journal entries

Thesis proposal:

- [ ] 

---

I am going to write a program which handles creating new journal entries from the previous ones.

## Thesis proposal

There is much less content for the first half of my thesis, where I improve commonsense reasoning itself, than for the second half, where I find better ways to apply it to downstream tasks.
I need to add more content to the first half, so I will focus on that for now.
To do so, I'll find the papers in my Paperpile which talk about improving commonsense reasoning itself and read some of them, adding their content.

I also recently noticed that my thesis finds better ways to do things, but it does not try to understand why these techniques work.
In Ali Rahimi's vocabulary, I am conducting alchemy, not science.
I'll say that my thesis will, aside from creating new techniques, try to understand why these techniques work.
Of course, I can't just drop that in--I need to 'bake' it into the thesis proposal.
I'll try to find some papers which try to understand why certain commonsense reasoning techniques work and why certain applications to downstream applications work.
I'll also try to find papers which try to understand more deeply what commonsense reasoning is; we know that LLMs can do some commonsense reasoning implicitly, so there is clearly something which we can identify as commonsense reasoning which exists independently of any particular technique.

I decided to read Yejin Choi's "The Curious Case of  
Commonsense Intelligence".
I will first read it, and then I will go back and add content.
The reason I want to read it without adding to my proposal is because I want to first digest it.