# 2023 July 25

- [x] read section 1.5 of (Colon-Hernandez, 2023)
- [ ] read chapter 2 of (ibid)

---

After reading section 1.5, I found that a PhD thesis is not as intimidating as I expected.
My concern was that writing a thesis would be a task beyond my abilities, but I now think that I can do it; I just need to put in the time and effort.

I also think that, when I apply to MIT, I should mention that my work is closely related to (Colon-Hernandez, 2023).
I can say that, because my work is related, that the same professors and committee can be formed.
It would also demonstrate that MIT would be a good fit.

In section 2.2, they add a {general, specific} quality to relations in their knowledge graph.
I've already seen knowledge graphs, but never with that quality.
They didn't specify what a specific relation is; I guess that it might be something like (specific, Los Angeles, is in, California).

I found it strange that cutting-edge work in commonsense reasoning relied on knowledge-base corpora which are created manually.
It is unfeasible to manually create a knowledge-base which contains all the information needed to understand the world.
Instead, it would be better to have a way to generate a knowledge base from observations of the world or a similar mechanism.
For example, maybe we could create a robot which lets a artificial intelligence system interact with the world.
As the machine does things, it would make observations, slowly developing an understanding of how things work, similar to human children.
This is certainly a huge task beyond the scope of a single doctoral thesis, but maybe I spend do my thesis advancing towards this direction.

Towards the end of chapter 2, (Colon-Hernandez, 2023) argues that recent developments in LLMs have shown them to be the most promising candidates for artificial general intelligence.
I already had my own inkling to this effect, so to hear (ibid) argue the same makes me more confident in my assertion that conversational agents are the best field for me to focus on for my thesis.
