# 2023 August 27

Thesis proposal:
- [x] figure out what to note for each paper I read
- [ ] answer Heilmeier's questions

---

## Thesis proposal

After spending several days trying to figure out what notes to write for each paper, I now realise that this is a question without an answer.
There is no reason for me to try to standardise the notes I take for each paper.
Instead, I should just take notes on a single, massive document, combining all the information from the literature review; I will of course note which paper is the source for each note.

This naturally leads to my new strategy: condense the entire field of commonsense reasoning in conversational agents into a single document of around fifteen pages.

I noted that (Bamman) has around one hundred references, so I should expect to have around that many.
I currently have saved twenty-six references, so I need to do more reading.

I realise that relying overly significantly on a single example thesis proposal would encourage me to 'overfit' to its format.
I should go over a few other example thesis proposals in NLP.
Rather than fully reading and digesting them, I can just skim them to get their structure.

I saw some thesis proposals which are outrageously long, around one hundred pages (https://crowd.ist.psu.edu/pdf/2017/2017_thesis_proposal.pdf; https://www.cs.rochester.edu/u/bkane2/documents/Thesis_Proposal.pdf).
I do not understand why they are so long, and I do not plan to read them or consider them.

## Thesis guides

NYU has a guide on writing master's theses for their interdisciplinary college.
It says:

>  - Thesis Statement
> 
> Following an optional introduction, the basic function of this section is to articulate a phenomenon that the student proposes to investigate (whether a social event, process, a literary work, an intellectual idea or something else), and the question(s), issue(s) or problem(s) related to that phenomenon that the student plans to address in the thesis. The core of the statement may take the form of a hypothesis that the student will test, of a proposition or argument that the student intends to support, or of a general problem or question the student  will explore. The section puts that basic problem statement in a larger context by explaining its historical origins (where did it come from?) and its intellectual, social, and/or artistic context (what conversation, debate, or line of inquiry does it participate in?). It also describes the sub-questions or themes that constitute the general problem. Students will cite appropriate scholarly, professional and other sources for the ideas, questions and background information contained in the section.
> - Research Methods
> 
> In this section, the student will identify (a) the kinds of information that needed to answer the question(s) raised in the Thesis Statement, (b) the methods the student will use to gather that information, and (c) the strategies by which the student will organize and analyze the information in such a way as to reach and support a conclusion, to construct a sound argument. If the central problem has several facets, the student may need an array of different methods for collecting and analyzing information. Students should be as precise as possible in each stage of the methods statement: Is information needed about the stylistic techniques in a novel, about changes in the poverty rates in Kenya since independence, about the ways children think about nature? Will the student pull out the metaphors in a text, find government reports on household income, interview kids about their experiences in the woods? Will the student deploy statistical forms of content analysis, correlate poverty rates with political changes, interpret themes in children’s stories? Students should reflect on the broad methodological approaches that they propose to use, and cite sources from which they derive their methods and tools. A student's central goal is to demonstrate that they know how to go about answering the question(s) that have been raised.
> 
> Please note that if students intend to conduct research on living people, they will need to get the approval of the University Committee on Activities Involving Human Subjects (UCAIHS). Before they apply for that approval, students will need to take a tutorial and pass a test on the various regulations. Refer to the UCAIHS website for more information.
> - Justification and Limitations
> 
> This section of the proposal should explain the rationale for the thesis and the importance of the topic. Indicate the reasons why this study is important to conduct and whom it will benefit. Identify the limits beyond which the inquiry will not go. For instance, if a student is writing about a historical subject, the student must explain the relevance of the time period selected. Finally, describe the contribution the work will make to the field.
> - Conclusion
> 
> This section should summarize the nature and intention of the student's work. Conclude the discussion and mention any pertinent information which may not have been included above.
> - Annotated Bibliography
> 
> This section consists of a list of books and articles and artworks with accompanying annotations that explain why these readings and other sources are likely to be crucial as the work advances.

Among these sections, the most important by far is the first, the thesis statement section.
The remaining sections are very small and simple, and I do not need to fret over them.

MIT's biology department says that a thesis proposal should consist of:

> **Title Page (One page)** Include the title, the date, your name and signature, the advisor’s name and signature, and the notation “Thesis Proposal”.
> 
> **Abstract (Less than 300 words on One page)** State the significance of the proposed research. Include long-term objectives and specific aims. Describe concisely the research design and methods for achieving these objectives. Highlight the specific hypotheses to be tested, goals to be reached, or technology to be developed, which are intended to be your original contributions. Avoid summaries of past accomplishments.
> 
> **Overall & Objective Specific Aims (One page Maximum)** Articulate the overall objective of your thesis project, and outline a set of specific aims by which your work is intended to accomplish this objective. Be sure to clearly state the hypotheses to be tested, goals to be reached, or technology to be developed.
> 
> **Background & Significance (Three to Five pages)** Sketch the background leading to the present research, critically evaluate existing knowledge, and specifically identify the gaps that your research is intended to fill. State concisely the importance of the research described in this proposal by relating the specific aims to the broad, long-term objectives.
> 
> **Research Design & Methods (Six to Eight pages)** Along with the Objective & Aims section, this is the most important part of the proposal. The majority of your time should be spent making this part of your proposal strong, direct, and completely clear. Describe the research design and the procedures to be used to accomplish the specific aims of the project; it is generally most effective to do this according to the same outline as in the Objective & Aims section. Include how the data will be collected, analyzed, and interpreted. Describe any new methodology and its advantage over existing methodologies. Discuss the potential difficulties and limitations of the proposed procedures and alternative approaches to achieve the aims. As part of this section, provide a tentative timetable for the project. Point out any procedures, situations or materials that may be hazardous and the precautions to be exercised.
> 
> **Preliminary Studies (Three to Four pages)** This section may alternatively be located before the Research Design & Methods section) Use this section to provide an account of your preliminary studies that are pertinent to your research project and that support your specific aims. Note: it is not necessary to have obtained a substantial amount of preliminary data in order to submit or defend the proposal, although it will be expected that you have begun to undertake some of the key methods to assess their feasibility.
> 
> **Literature Cited (No page limits)** List all references. Each reference must include the title, names of authors, book or journal, volume number, starting and ending page numbers, and year of publication. References should be limited to relevant literature. References are not included in the page limits. However, only references pertinent to the proposed research should be included.
> 
> **Appendix (No page limits)** Copies of published or submitted articles pertinent to the proposed research for which you are an author may be included. Such publications are neither expected nor required at the time of Thesis Proposal presentation.

My effort will focus on the Background & Significance section.
Although this guideline sets the Research Design & Methods section as the longest section and considers it to be the most important, I do not expect the same to hold in my field.
I expect this section to be rather short in my proposal.
The Preliminary Studies section in my proposal would be blank, so I expect to just not include it.

MIT's EECS department says that

> The main components of a thesis proposal are:
> - title and abstract,
> - introduction that motivates the proposed work,
> - related and/or preliminary work, and
> - proposed future work, including a timeline to complete that work.

They also list a few questions, termed *Heilmeier's questions*:

> What problem needs solving? What are you trying to do?
> 
> How is it done today? What are the limitations of the current practice?
> 
> What is new in your approach and why do you think it can succeed?
> 
> Assuming you are successful, what difference does it make? Who cares and why?
> 
> How much time/money/risk will it take?
> 
> How will you (periodically) measure success?

I will begin working on my thesis proposal by answering these questions.

I read an example master's thesis proposal, (B. Mc Goldrick, “Ising machine based on coupled spin torque oscillators.” https://mitcommlab.mit.edu/eecs/wp-content/uploads/sites/6/2017/11/Brooke-McGoldrick-thesis-proposal-annotated.pdf).
Notably, a substantial portion of the proposal consists of the methods subsection, where the author details minutiae about how certain properties will be measured, the equivalent of me describing what BLEU, ROUGE, n-gram overlap, etc. are.
These methods subsubsections would be fairly easy for me to write, almost tedium.
The Proposed Work section, totalling around five pages, consists of three pages of the Methods subsection and another two pages of the Preliminary Results subsection.
This indicates to me that I do not need to supply much in my Proposed Work section; considering that I am supplying this document before I officially start graduate school, I can fully exclude a preliminary results section.
Although this is a master's thesis, not a doctoral thesis, I expect that this would still apply.

I found [a guide](https://scripps.ucsd.edu/system/files/2021-09/Franks_2021.pdf) to writing a thesis proposal from a professor at UCSD's oceanology department.