# 2023 September 1

Thesis proposal:

- [ ] Fill in outline with the content from referenced papers

---

## Thesis proposal

A thesis proposal cite about one hundred papers.
I expect that this means that I will need to read around two hundred papers, only using half of them in the final proposal.
If I push myself hard enough, I can read five papers every day, which would let me finish this in forty days.
It's not much time, but it'll have to do.

Actually, I changed my mind.
It doesn't make sense to set an exact goal like two hundred papers because I can tell from reading the abstract whether a paper will be useful or not.

I think that I will instead start by outlining major sections of my thesis proposal.
From there, I can find papers on each topic.

---

Let's go back to Heilmeier's questions:

- What are you trying to do? Articulate your objectives using absolutely no jargon.
- How is it done today, and what are the limits of current practice?
- What is new in your approach and why do you think it will be successful?
- Who cares? If you are successful, what difference will it make?
- What are the risks?
- How much will it cost?
- How long will it take?
- What are the mid-term and final 'exams' to check for success?

The second question is the literature review.
My literature review needs to answer that question.
It's also worth keeping in mind that, of the hundred-or-so papers I need to cite, only a fraction will be used in the literature review.
Some will be used in the methods section, e.g. the paper which introduced BLEU.
Others will be used in the 'Who cares?' section.
I think that fifty to seventy-five papers in the literature review will be sufficient.

Now, let's answer the questions, albeit briefly:

- **What are you trying to do? Articulate your objectives using absolutely no jargon.**
I am trying to make conversational agents better at understanding how the world works.
- **How is it done today, and what are the limits of current practice?** (Answered by the literature review)
- **What is new in your approach and why do you think it will be successful?** (I can say in my thesis proposal that I will spend my thesis answering this question)
- **Who cares? If you are successful, what difference will it make?** (I will answer this question over the course of my reading papers)
- ~~**What are the risks?**~~ (I'm going to ignore this because it doesn't apply much)
- ~~**How much will it cost?**~~ (Thesis proposals do not include a funding section)
- **How long will it take?** (I need to make a rough timeline)
- **What are the mid-term and final 'exams' to check for success?** (I need to figure this out)

---

I will now go through every paper I have in the prior work folder on Paperpile, identifying which Heilmeier's question they help answer.
There are currently twenty-six papers in the folder, and I only really need to read the abstract to figure out which questions they answer, so I can do this reasonably quickly.

---

After reading the abstract for (Kim et al, 2022), I realised that my thesis can introduce both better ways to do commonsense reasoning and then better ways to use it.
For example, maybe I could use commonsense reasoning to improve document summarisation, as they do in (ibid).
I will use Paperpile tags to mark them.

I've decided to start writing the sections of the thesis proposal.
For example, I might have a section for every downstream task of commonsense reasoning as part of the motivation section.
Writing an outline of the sections will make it easier for me to organise myself; to write my thesis proposal, I just need to tackle each section individually.

Upon further thought, I do not think that it makes sense to mark which Heilmeier's questions each paper answers.
This is because these questions are answered by synthesising the works, so an individual paper might not answer a question whereas combining it with another might.

My thesis will focus on two goals:

1. finding better ways to do commonsense reasoning, and
2. finding better ways to apply commonsense reasoning to downstream tasks.

Each of these two goals has several subsections.
I think that, by having a thorough literature review, I can fill these two sections to be enough to form a substantial thesis proposal.

---

I further fleshed-out the outline of the sections.
I'll need to proofread it before I work on each section's content, but I think that this is a good position from which to work.

Looking at my thesis proposal, I realise now that conversational agents are not the central focus off this thesis; commonsense reasoning is.
As such, I should reframe this thesis as being about commonsense reasoning.
I am not married to doing a thesis on conversational agents; I can do a thesis on commonsense reasoning and then continue to have a career focusing on conversational agents.

Now that I have an outline, I can see what I need to do next.
I will fill out the sections top-to-bottom.

I decided that, rather than having an outline of the sections and a different outline with the content, I will have a single outline which details the sections and their content.
It will be rather large, but it's better streamlined.

I decided that I will fill out my outline by reading papers and adding their details into my outline.
This will help me fill out the 'basal layer', so to speak, of the content.
After that, I can add my own ideas to the outline, building on top of the prior work.
I added a tag to all the papers in Paperpile which tracks whether I've added their content to the outline.